apps/all-locations/README.md, before:

<style type="text/css">
body {
    background-color: #001122;
    color: #F2F2F2;
}
</style>

<div align="center">
  <img src="./src/favicon.ico"></img>

  <h1 align="center">Tymeshift - React code test</h1>
  <p>Welcome to Tymeshift's react code test 🧪</p>

</div>

---

## Getting Started

. `yarn start` **Runs the app in the development mode**
. `yarn test` **Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode**
. `yarn build` **Builds the app for production to the `build` folder**

## Task description:

In our real Tymeshift frontend application we have an "All locations" page where we display all the locations where company users are located. This task is designed to be a simple version of a real page we use and to give you a feeling of what your job will look like in Tymeshift. On the other hand we will be able to check how you handle a real requirement. This is the simplified "All locations" page:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/50903242/109963912-40221180-7ced-11eb-9bf4-befe6595a1b1.png)

Implement small react application that will display "All locations" page.
Clicking on a specific location should display a modal with all the properties of that single location. Modal should be closable.

Locations on main "All locations" page are displayed with a card showing some of the location properties.
Every location card should also contain a section "Views:", displaying the real number next to it. Default starting value is 0.
Every time the user clicks on a location to display its properties, number of views should increase by 1.

All data is read-only and can be retrieved from [this API endpoint](https://6033c4d8843b15001793194e.mockapi.io/api/locations).

All application pages and components should follow the [provided design](https://www.sketch.com/s/e1647b30-8066-43dc-bbf3-5b81d5a01bb2).

## Rules

- Solution should be written in React
- You can upload your solution to GitHub or send us a ZIP file with the solution at hiring@tymeshift.com
- We tried to create a task with a small scope but take all the time you need to feel comfortable with your solution and do it at your own pace

## What we're looking for

- Is it a clean solution that is easy to follow, respects all the specs and the design
- How you approach and structure the solution
- How complete and detailed is the solution

---

## Introduction

As mentioned in the requirements, this "small code test application" is an sample of a real professional project.
We attempt so, to think this app in terms of a large scalable application.

## First Thoughts

Before to start this kind of challenge, I clearly need to take some time to focus about the architecture of the app will need. The code have some needs, in terms of scalability, quality, performance and for sure in technical terms, always thinking that an entire team is working on it.

So, I personally attempt to work keeping those principles in mind, to imagine what could be the strong choices made by the company. And if I didn't have all the answers of my thoughts on this project, I've made my personal choices, according with the skills and the time I had to make this code test real.

## Structure

## What's next

Commit message:

all-locations: changes on logo & readme/ sundaes-on-demand: code & test context for scoops

apps/all-locations/README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <img src="./src/favicon.ico"></img>

  <h1 align="center">Tymeshift - React code test</h1>
  <p>Welcome to Tymeshift's react code test 🧪</p>

</div>

---

## Getting Started

. `yarn start` **Runs the app in the development mode**
. `yarn test` **Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode**
. `yarn build` **Builds the app for production to the `build` folder**

## Task description:

In our real Tymeshift frontend application we have an "All locations" page where we display all the locations where company users are located. This task is designed to be a simple version of a real page we use and to give you a feeling of what your job will look like in Tymeshift. On the other hand we will be able to check how you handle a real requirement. This is the simplified "All locations" page:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/50903242/109963912-40221180-7ced-11eb-9bf4-befe6595a1b1.png)

Implement small react application that will display "All locations" page.
Clicking on a specific location should display a modal with all the properties of that single location. Modal should be closable.

Locations on main "All locations" page are displayed with a card showing some of the location properties.
Every location card should also contain a section "Views:", displaying the real number next to it. Default starting value is 0.
Every time the user clicks on a location to display its properties, number of views should increase by 1.

All data is read-only and can be retrieved from [this API endpoint](https://6033c4d8843b15001793194e.mockapi.io/api/locations).

All application pages and components should follow the [provided design](https://www.sketch.com/s/e1647b30-8066-43dc-bbf3-5b81d5a01bb2).

## Rules

- Solution should be written in React
- You can upload your solution to GitHub or send us a ZIP file with the solution at hiring@tymeshift.com
- We tried to create a task with a small scope but take all the time you need to feel comfortable with your solution and do it at your own pace

## What we're looking for

- Is it a clean solution that is easy to follow, respects all the specs and the design
- How you approach and structure the solution
- How complete and detailed is the solution

---

## Introduction

As mentioned in the requirements, this "small app test" is a sample of a real professional project.
We attempt so, to think this app in terms of a large scalable application.
I decided as much as can to think in terms of reusable components, trying to visualizing what could be the app in his complex version even If I do not have all the information. It would involve, for sure, to communicate with the teams (designers, leader and or backend) to adapt in consequence.

## First Thoughts

Before to start this kind of challenge, I clearly need to take some time to focus about the architecture of the app will need. The code have some needs, in terms of scalability, quality, performance and for sure in technical terms, always thinking that an entire team is working on it.

So, I personally attempt to work keeping those principles in mind, to imagine what could be the strong choices made by the company. And if I didn't have all the answers of my thoughts on this project, I've made my personal choices, according with the skills and the time I had to make this code test real.

## Structure

```sh
src/
├── assets
├── components
│   ├── App
│   ├── CardLocation
│   ├── HeaderAllLocations
│   └── ModalLocation
├── containers
│   └── ListLocations
├── pages
│   └── AllLocationsPage
├── utils
    ├── colors
    ├── global
    ├── index
    └── typography
```

## What's next
